docs: Document how to use ListenHTTP (#765)
stackabletech/nifi-operator: docs/modules/nifi/pages/usage_guide/exposing-processors/http.adoc

= Exposing HTTP processors
:description: Expose NiFi ListenHTTP processor by creating Service and Ingress objects, allowing external tools to trigger workflows or send data.

> Use can use the `ListenHTTP` processor to start a HTTP webserver and listen for incoming connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `ListenHTTP` processor to start a HTTP webserver and listen for incoming connections.
```

Reviewer: See also https://github.com/stackabletech/nifi-operator/pull/765#discussion_r2010045497

In this case `POST` requests are being send to NiFi, which acts as a webhook to receive data here.
You should also be able to serve `GET` requests by using the `HandleHttpRequest` processor, however this is currently not demonstrated in this guide.

== 1. Create `ListenHTTP` processor

Let's start by creating a `ListenHTTP` processor:

1. Set `Base Path` to an empty string

> 2. Set `Listening Port` to `8042` or any other unused port number you prefer

Author: The customer actually had multiple processors running, so I'd say it's important to know that you can use multiple ports ;)
But never mind, applying the suggestion ;)

3. Set `Record Reader` to an `JsonTreeReader` and `Record Writer` to an `JsonRecordSetWriter` instance.
   This guide assumes you are receiving JSON documents, but you can also receive other files types, please update the record reader and writer accordingly.

You should end up with something similar to

image:listen-http-1.png[A ListenHTTP processor]

== 2. Expose `ListenHTTP` processor

> Afterwards you need to expose the processor the the outside world of NiFi.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Afterwards you need to expose the processor to the outside world.
```

This guide assumes your NifiCluster is called `simple-nifi`, please update the YAML accordingly.

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: simple-nifi-listen-http # Update according to NifiCluster name
spec:
  type: ClusterIP
  selector:
    app.kubernetes.io/component: node
    app.kubernetes.io/instance: simple-nifi # Update according to NifiCluster name
    app.kubernetes.io/name: nifi
  ports:
  - name: http
    port: 8042
    protocol: TCP
    targetPort: 8042
----

In case you don't have an ingress controller, you can set the Service type to `LoadBalancer` or `NodePort` instead and should be ready to go.
If you are using an ingress controller, an Ingress could look something like

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: simple-nifi-listen-http # Update according to NifiCluster name
spec:
  rules:
  - host: simple-nifi-listen-http.my.corp # Update to your host
    http:
      paths:
      - pathType: Prefix
        path: /
        backend:
          service:
            name: simple-nifi-listen-http # Update to your Service name
            port:
              number: 8042
----

=== 3. Route 

> 

Reviewer 2: Moved from below.

```suggestion

The next step is to handle different kind of messages coming in, based on the HTTP path.

```

Author: Technically we first check it without routing and than add routing, but I guess this way it's easier to read.
(We only add the RouteOnAttribute here to have *some* follow-up processor, so that we can start the ListenHTTP)

First, create a `RouteOnAttribute` processor and connect it to the `success` output of the `ListenHTTP` processor as shown below.
Start the `ListenHTTP` processor.

image:listen-http-2.png[´RouteOnAttribute connected to ListenHTTP processor]

The `ListenHTTP` processor should now generate a FlowFile for every incoming HTTP request.

> You can test this e.g. by calling `curl --verbose --data '{"hello":"NiFi"}' https://simple-nifi-listen-http.my.corp`, you should get a `HTTP/2 200` response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can test this by calling `curl --verbose --data '{"hello":"NiFi"}' https://simple-nifi-listen-http.my.corp`, you should get a `HTTP/2 200` response.
```

> TIP: If you get a `503 Service Temporarily Unavailable`, this probably means your ingress controller was not able to
> reach your `ListenHTTP` processor, it is probably not running or not configured correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TIP: If you get a `503 Service Temporarily Unavailable`, this probably means your Ingress controller was not able to
reach your `ListenHTTP` processor. Check that the Ingress controller is running and configured correctly.
```

Reviewer: Maybe this should be a multi-line admonition, but I can never remember how to do is in asciidoc.

Author: I was actually referring to the ListenHTTP processor being badly configured here, not the Ingress controller.
The ingress controller is very likely working, as they can access the WebUI and it returns a 503 ;)

Reviewer: Ok, maybe that should be clearer.

```suggestion
TIP: If you get a `503 Service Temporarily Unavailable`, this probably means your Ingress controller was not able to
reach your `ListenHTTP` processor. Check that the processor is running running and configured correctly.
```

Author: Thanks, I went with
TIP: If you get a `503 Service Temporarily Unavailable`, this probably means your Ingress controller was not able to
reach your `ListenHTTP` processor. Check that the processor is running and configured correctly.

This should result in one FlowFile being queued, as shown in the picture above and below.

image:listen-http-3.png[Resulting FlowFile]

> The next step is to handle different kind of messages coming in, based on the HTTP path.

Reviewer 2: Moved to the beginning of the paragraph.

```suggestion
```

> The next step is to handle different kind of messages coming in, based on the HTTP path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step is to handle different kinds of messages coming in, based on the HTTP path.
```

In the `RouteOnAttribute` processor, add a field called `/webhook/foo` with the value of `${"restlistener.request.uri":equals('/webhook/foo')}`.
You can replace `/webhook/foo` with whatever URL your HTTP service should be reachable.

> This guide also added `/webhook/bar` and `/webhook/bak` in a similar way.

Reviewer: I didn't see where `bar` and `bak` were used.

Also, in case it is a typo:

```suggestion
This guide also added `/webhook/bar` and `/webhook/baz` in a similar way.
```

Author: They are in the screenshot docs/modules/nifi/assets/images/listen-http-4.png, I wanted to showcase routing to more than one target ^^
